


  DECOR APPLICATION MACHINERY
  2014-2017 (c) Vladi Belperchinov-Shabanski "Cade"

  FIELD TYPES
  
  available field types are:
  
  "char"
  
      CHAR types take one argument, which is maximum field length.
      it holds arbitrary text data.
      
      argument is optional and has default value of 256
  
  "int"
  
      INT takes one argument, which is maximum number digits.
      it holds any integer number (either negative, positive or zero).

      argument is optional and by default is defined as the largest
      allowed integer type supported by the currently selected RDBMS

  "bool"

      BOOL has no arguments and holds TRUE or FALSE.
      
      it is defined as shortest possible integer and value of 0 means FALSE
      and value of 1 means TRUE. all values above 1 are converted to 1.
  
  "real"

      REAL takes one argument, combined precision and scale as follows:
      
      precision.scale
      
      "precision" is the maximum full count of all significant digits
      (including the fraction part).
      
      "scale" is maximum allowed digit count in the fraction part
      (i.e. after the decimal dot)
      
      examples:
      
      10.5   -- allow 10 digit numbers, of which fraction can be max 5
      22     -- allow 22 digits, without fraction part
      .5     -- allow 18+5 significant digits, with 5 in the fraction part
      
      argument is optional and has default value of 36.18

  "link"
  
      LINK takes two arguments, "linked table name" and "linked field name".
      
      this field holds the ID of the linked record in "linked table name".
      "linked field name" is the field in "linked table name" which will
      be shown on the screen.
      
      example:
      
          =CITY
          
          type  link  cities   name
          
      which means that current field "CITY" holds the ID of the selected
      city from the table "CITIES" and the field "NAME" from table "CITIES" 
      will be show in the place of "CITY".
      
      both arguments are mandatory and have no default value!
  
  "backlink"
  
      BACKLINK takes two arguments, "backlinked table name" and 
      "backlinked field".
      
      this field is defined as integer and may hold the linked records count
      in the future. however, currently, it has only screen control meaning
      and shows all records from "backlinked table name" with "LINK"-type
      field named "backlinked field", which is linked to the current record.
      
      example:
      
          =ADDRESSES
          
            type  backlink  ADDRESSES   CITY
            
      this field will show a button, which will display all records from 
      the table ADDRESSES, which is linked to the current city (i.e. the
      field CITY links to the current record ID).
     
      NOTE: LINK and BACKLINK are the two sides of a link between two tables.
      BACKLINKs must always point to LINK-type field in the remote table.       
  
  "date"
  
      DATE has no arguments and holds calendar date.
      
      it is defined as integer and holds "Julian Date". it is converted to 
      human readable form only for user screens as "year.months.day".

      if "day" is ommited it is considered 1st of the month.
      if "month" is omitted it is considered January.
  
  "time"

      DATE has no arguments and holds time.
      
      it is defined as integer and holds number of seconds. it can be used
      as day time or any time period. its user readable form is 
      "hour:minutes:seconds".

  "utime"

      UTIME has no arguments and holds date+time timestamp.
      
      it is defined as integer and holds UNIX time (number of seconds since
      the Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC). its human readable form
      combines date and time. on user input, time can be omitted and 
      assumed 00:00:00. 
      if day is ommited it is considered 1st of the month.
      if month is omitted it is considered January.

--
